SOURCE: Public institutional publishing-agreement sample (PDF text extract)
URL: https://www.maine.edu/general-counsel/wp-content/uploads/sites/49/2019/12/PublishingAgreementStandard.pdf

                                                                              
                                                                                  
PUBLISHING AGREEMENT 
THIS AGREEMENT (hereinafter called the Agreement) is made this ____ day of ___________, 20    , 
between 
(hereinafter called the “Publisher”) and
 (hereinafter called the “Author,” which term shall be 
deemed to include the Author's executor, devisees, heirs, and literary assigns). 
WHEREAS, the Author desires the Publisher to publish the Author’s work titled 
, (hereinafter called the “Work”), and Publisher 
desires to publish the Work; 
NOW THEREFORE in consideration of the promises hereinafter set forth and for valuable consideration, 
receipt whereof is acknowledged, the parties agree as follows: 
1. Grant of Publishing Rights 
A. The Author hereby grants and assigns to the Publisher, its successors, representatives, and assigns, the 
sole and exclusive right to publish (i.e., print, publish, and sell) the Work in the English language in all 
forms in the United States of America, its territories and dependencies, and Canada, during the full term 
of copyright and any renewals and extensions thereof, except as provided herein. 
B. The Publisher shall have the sole and exclusive right to publish or to license the Work for publication 
in the English language or in any other language in the United Kingdom and in any other foreign country, 
except as provided herein. 
C. The Author shall execute and deliver to the Publisher any and all documents which the Publisher 
reasonably deems necessary or appropriate to evidence or effectuate the rights granted in this Agreement. 
D. If, at any time during the effective term of this Agreement, a claim shall arise for infringement or 
unfair competition as to any of the rights which are the subject of this Agreement, the parties may proceed 
jointly or separately to prosecute an action based on such claims. If the parties proceed jointly, the 
expenses (including attorneys’ fees) and recovery, if any, shall be shared equally by the parties. If the 
parties do not proceed jointly, each party shall have the right to proceed separately, and if so, such party 
shall bear the costs of litigation and shall own and retain any and all recovery resulting from such 
litigation. If the party proceeding separately does not hold the record title of the copyright at issue, the 
other party hereby consents that the action be brought in his, her or its name. Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, the Publisher has no obligation to initiate litigation on such claims, and shall not be liable for 
any failure to do so. 
E. Nothing contained in this Clause shall be construed as limiting, modifying or otherwise affecting any 
of the rights granted to the Publisher under this Agreement. 
2. Copyright 
Copyright of the Work, if not heretofore registered, shall be registered by the Publisher, upon first 
publication, in a timely manner in the name of the Author, in the United States and in such other countries 
as the Publisher deems feasible or desirable, and the proper copyright notice or notices necessary to protect 
copyright to and in any work shall be printed on the reverse side of the title page or in another appropriate 
place, in every copy thereof, in the name of the Author. The Publisher shall also have the right to effect 
any renewals of copyright provided by law and the right to any assistance from the Author or Author’s 
heirs, successors, or assigns, essential thereto. 

 
 
 
 
   
 
3. Author's Warranties and Indemnity 
A. The Author warrants to the Publisher and its licensees that she is the sole Author and proprietor of the 
Work; that the Work has not heretofore been published in book form; that she is the owner of all the rights 
granted to the Publisher, and has full power to enter into this agreement, and that said rights are not subject 
to any proper agreement, lien, or other claim or rights which may interfere with the rights herein granted; 
that the Work is original and not in the public domain; that it does not violate the right of privacy of any 
person; that it contains no libelous, obscene, or other unlawful matter; and that it does not infringe upon 
the copyright or violate any other right of any person or party. The Author agrees to hold the Publisher 
harmless against any damages, including attorney's fees, finally sustained in any suit involving the 
Publisher or its licensees by reason of a violation of any of these warranties. 
B. If any such suit is instituted, the Publisher shall promptly notify the Author and may withhold 
payments due to the Author under this Agreement, until such suit has been settled or withdrawn. If a final 
adverse judgment is rendered and is not discharged by the Author, the Publisher may apply the payments 
so withheld to the satisfaction of such judgment. The Author undertakes for herself, her successors and 
assigns, to execute at any time, on request of the Publisher, any document or documents to confirm or 
continue any of the rights defined herein, and to take all proceedings necessary to enforce copyright in the 
United States and elsewhere. 
C. If the Author unreasonably disapproves of any out-of-court settlement recommended by the Publisher 
and the claim or suit proceeds to trial, the Author shall be liable for all the Publisher's fees, costs, damages, 
and expenses connected with such trial regardless of outcome. The Publisher shall have the right to 
reasonably extend the benefit of the indemnities to any person, firm, or corporation at any time, and the 
Author shall be liable thereon as if Author's warranties were originally made to such person, firm, or 
corporation. 
D. The provisions of this Section 3 shall survive the termination of this Agreement. 
4. Delivery of New Work Manuscript 
A. The Author agrees to deliver to the Publisher one (1) copy of the final manuscript of the Work, in 
content and form satisfactory to the Publisher, on or before _____________________, 20    , (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Initial Delivery Date”), in proper shape for the press. The Author agrees that one (1) 
additional copy shall be delivered on floppy disks, formatted to be compatible with Microsoft Word, 
Version 
. The Author agrees to make and keep at least one (1) complete copy of the manuscript and 
such disk. Failure to deliver in all respects as defined herein shall be just cause for the Publisher to 
terminate this agreement. 
B. The Author shall deliver to the Publisher, not later than the Initial Delivery Date unless otherwise 
designated by the Publisher, each of the following materials: 
i) The Author shall deliver to the Publisher, at the Author’s sole expense, written authorizations and 
permissions for the use of any copyrighted or other proprietary materials (including but not limited to 
art and illustrations) owned by any third party which appear in the Work and written releases or 
consents by any person or entity described, quoted or depicted in the Work (hereinafter collectively 
called the “Permissions”). If the Author does not deliver the Permissions, the Publisher shall have the 
right, but not the obligation, to obtain such Permissions on its own initiative, and the Author shall 
reimburse the Publisher for all expenses incurred by the Publisher in obtaining such Permissions. 

ii) The Author acknowledges and confirms that the Publisher shall have no liability of any kind for the 
loss or destruction of the Manuscript or any other documents or materials provided by the Author to 
the Publisher, and agrees to make and maintain copies of all such documents and materials for use in 
the event of such loss or destruction. 
C. If the Publisher, in its sole discretion, reasonably deems the Manuscript, and/or any other materials 
delivered by the Author to be unacceptable in form and substance, then the Publisher shall promptly advise 
the Author by written notice, and the Author shall cure any defects and generally revise and correct the 
Manuscript and/or other materials to the reasonable satisfaction of the Publisher, and deliver fully revised 
and corrected Manuscript and/or other materials promptly after receipt of the Publisher’s notice. 
D. If the Author fails to deliver the Manuscript or other materials required under this Agreement, and/or 
any revisions and corrections thereof as requested by the Publisher, on the dates reasonably designated by 
the Publisher, or if the Author fails to do so in a form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the 
Publisher, then the Publisher shall have the right to terminate this Agreement by so informing the Author 
by letter sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address of the Author set forth herein. Upon 
termination by the Publisher, the Author shall, without prejudice to any other right or remedy of the 
Publisher, immediately repay the Publisher any sums previously paid to the Au

---
ANNEX (synthetic — fictional parties for recall testing only)

These fields are invented for regression testing. They are not real people or companies.

Supplier legal name: NORDIC WIDGETS OY
Also trading as: SILVER PINE
Business contact: Jordan Avery Blake
Email: jordan.blake@nordic-widgets.example.com
Phone: +1 (415) 555-0199
Registered office: 500 Market Street, San Francisco
Website: https://www.nordic-widgets.example.com/services
Secondary site: www.silver-pine.example.org
Payment IBAN: GB29 NWBK 6016 1331 9268 19

Customer legal name: ACME LOGISTICS LTD
Contact person: Morgan Ellis Quinn
Email: morgan.quinn@acme-logistics.example.com
Phone: +44 20 7946 0958
Delivery address: 12 Baker Street, London
Vehicle plate reference: ABC-123
Network endpoint for EDI: 203.0.113.42
